# Tom Flaherty 1900 Little Raven St., Suite 561, Denver CO 80202    (720)-587-5017     tef@eazy.net   Sept. 1, 2015 Education: Bachelor of Science - Mathematics / Geophysics - Colorado School of Mines ### 25 years experience with Data Science, Math, UI, 4-Tier, REST, Languages & PracticesOver the last 25 years I have simplified each platform tier to focus on its strengths. So web UIs are dedicated to the user experience, services focus on business objectives, databases model business semantics and integration transparently links systems. I have found the most productive practices to be Apache Spark, UI/HTML5, polyglot languages: ( CoffeeScript, Scala, Groovy, Clojure & DSLs ) and REST platforms:( Play/Akka, NodeJS and NetKernel ). The orchestration of these practices are summarized by Axiom’s road map. | Discipline | Experience | Y | Experience | Y | Experience | Y | Experience | Y || ---------- | ---------- | - | ---------- | - | ---------- | - | ---------- | - || Technology | Spark / Pentaho | 2,3 | Web UI             | 5 | Akka,J2EE  | 2,5 | Data | 8 || Languages  | Scala           | 8 | Coffee/JavaScript    | 6 |  Java      | 6   | C++ | 5 || Practices  | Data Science    | 5 | Math / Visualization | 6 | Enterprise | 8   | Design Patterns | 6 |## Axiom Architectures, LLC -  Chief Architect   2001 - 2013My partners and I founded Axiom in 2001 in response to our venture capitalists requests to build a 4-Tier B2B portals for their start ups, which concluded in 2006 with IBIS. In 2007 I began work in quantitative math that led to symbolic math in Scala at Glaxo. In 2009 I created the Practice Road Map that led us to State of California. In 2010 we solidified our UI/UX  libraries with HTML5, mobile, polyglot languages and REST.  In 2012 our key venture capitalist retired and so we shifted from projects to consulting with Data Science, math visualization, UI/UX, and the Practice Road Map. ### Data Science 2013 to 2015* **Exit Now Mobile CDOT App.** Winner of the GoCode Denver Hackathon Competition April 19, 2015* **Open Source 2013 On Github:**  Math Visualization Presentations ( LeafletGIS, MathBox3D and ScalaMathDSL ). * **Wisconsin Dept. of Transportation 2013** - Enterprise Architecture visualization in D3.js. Upgraded ESRI GIS ### UI/UX, Mobile and Visualization Apps 2010 to 2012Our UI/UX applications leverage CoffeeScript, jQuery, Visualization( D3,MathBox, MVC( Backbone, CanJS, AngularJS ), CSS3( Less, Bootstrap ), Test( Jasmine, PhantomJS ) and PhoneGap for mobile. Our UI/UX apps are single page with module configuration, page navigation and data interchange. The server REST technologies are NodeJS, NetKernel and Scala/Play/Akka.  Recently refined Axiom's Practice Road Map with Business Model Generation, Agile and Cloud hosting facilitation.* **Open Source 2013** [https://github.com/axiom6](https://github.com/axiom6) LeafletGIS, MathBox3D and ScalaMathDSL. * **DN2K 2013**  Wrote a complete Leaflet.js mobile map app synchronized to agriculture asset data in Backbone. * **Snugg Home 2012** Rewrote the contractor energy savings mobile app in CoffeeScript, Backbone, Bootstrap and REST. * **PSS 2012** Prototyped a Scala/Play/Akka REST server and set up the UI test suite in Jasmine and PhantomJS. * **PSS 2011** Refactored all of the CSS and JavaScript libraries for a medical supply site written in JSP. * **Part Miner 2011** Wrote all the HTML5, CSS JavaScript and integrated .NET for an electronics parts search portal. * **Venture Associates 2010** Created Axiom's first single page app with jQuery, AJAX and REST. ### Scala Math DSL and Axiom's Practice Road Map 2007-2009After IBIS, in 2007 I set up a side practice quantifying benefits & risks for lending firms with Mathematica. Recreated my symbolic math Lisp libraries into a Scala Math DSL. Demoed Scala Math DSL to Glaxo in 2008 and was awarded a contract for molecular modeling research on the JVM. See [GitHub](https://github.com/axiom6/ScalaMathDSL) for the talk and open source. In 2009 my partners landed Axiom's biggest contract with California's Health and Human services. So I quickly assimilated the Federal Enterprise Architecture (FEA) reference models (BRM SCRM, DRM, TCM, PRM) into Axiom's Practice Road Map. This  made the FEA accessible to all the business and technology directors. In response to California's budget concerns, we replaced the PRM score cards with CPIC for capital budgeting and performed quantitive budget analysis with Pentaho BI. Finally I connected with a welfare development group where I conducted a Grails workshop and set up Apache Camel for EIP Patterns* **California 2009** Federal Enterprise Architecture (FEA) Methodology with Axiom's Practice Road Map.* **Glaxo 2008** Scala Math DSL for molecular modeling research.* **Lending Firms 2007** Quanitative benefits & risks with Mathematica and Java persistence.### 4-Tier B2B Portals 2001-2006Before Axiom from 1996-2001 I had become proficient in application server integration. So we leaveraged this experience to build a 4-Tier B2B J2EE XML portals for Fuel Base, Digiterra, Avert, Level3 and IBIS.* **IBIS 2006** Modeled semantics for matching businesses to consumers. Built local search engine for Series A funding.* **Time Warner Telecom 2005**  Streamlined J2EE architecture by refactoring Struts, Web Logic J2EE and web Methods.* **Level 3 2004** Coded the Java Swing GUI and mentored developers for provisioning Level 3's VPN networks.* **ADP/Avert 2003** Created a comblete web front end in JSP for HR background checks. Load tested with JMeter.* **Digiterra 2002** Integrated AT&T, Time Warner, DirectTV, Sprint, Comcast to Circuit City’s kiosk site with XML.* **Fuel Base 2001** Built a 4-Tier B2B portal with Silverstream & Vitria integration for a start up.<div style="page-break-after:always;"></div>### Book and Presentations 2008-2013* **Getting to Know Scala for Data Science** Data Science Association 6/124/2015 * **Reactive Principle in Data Science** Data Science Association 2/28/2015* **Polyglot Principles**  Manning book proposal about the language principles that inspired Scala Clojure Groovy Ruby * **Scala Math DSL** Denver Scala Users Group 6/11/2013* **Math Box 3D Visualization** - HTML5 Denver 5/13/2013* **GIS with Leaflet** Denver JS 5/2/2013 and Den of Clojure (OpenBike) 6/20/2013 * **An Architectural Blueprint for a REST CMS in NetKernel** NetKernel Conference 4/14 2011* **The Evolution of 4-Tier Architectures with REST** Northern Colorado Architects 12/15/2010* **A Practical Road Map to Enterprise Architecture** Denver Open Source Users Group 10/5/2010* **Polyglot Language Panel & Scala Expert** Denver Java Users 4/14/2010 CO Springs 11/25/2010 Boulder 5/10/2011* **Principles of Programming Languages**  2/2/2010 Scala  Groovy Clojure Smalltalk Lisp & Ruby* **Scala Paradigms** Denver 8/5/2008 8/4/2009 Boulder 8/11/2009 CO Springs 8/26/2009- Scala DSLs and Mixins with Traits.### Axiom's Practice Road Map<div style="width:854px;"><table  style="float:left; width:300px;"><thead><tr><th> </th><th> Engage </th><th> Innovate </th><th> Encourage </th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td><strong>Learn</strong></td><td> Collaborate </td><td> Expertise </td><td> Discover </td></tr><tr><td><strong>Do</strong></td><td> Agile </td><td> Build </td><td> Benefit </td></tr><tr><td><strong>Share</strong></td><td> Change </td><td> Facilitate </td><td> Govern </td></tr></tbody></table><div style="float:left; width:360px; padding-left:2%; padding-top:1%;">Axiom's 9 core practices have evolved to a collaborative team 20 years. The road map addresses semantic, cultural, methodology and architectural concerns. A key enabler is hands on experience deriving benefits with each practice at Axiom, XCare, DMR, Williams, NorTel and Glaxo. Tied to the road map to FEA for California in 2009.</div></div><div style="clear:both;"></div>## XCare / Quovadx - Principal Solution Architect -  Oct. 2000 - May 2001My team built MedUnite's HIPAA XML transactions portal for Aetna, Cigna, Anthem, Wellpoint and PacificCare. Created Topic Maps in Ontopia that traversed medical documents with semantic relationships. Designed an integration tier for Vitria. Upgraded the solution architect methodology that passed a SAS-70 audit.## DMR Consulting - Principal Architect March 1999 - April 2000Created a reference 4-Tier architecture for DMR's e-commerce proposals. Formed strategic partnerships with Web Logic, Vitria and Cygent to reinforce 4-Tier integration within J2EE. Initiated projects for 20 Java developers for 4-Tier sites at American Express and ICG. Captured the knowledge of DMR's Benefit Realization experts into Strategic, Governance and CMM practices. Combined DMR's benefits and 4-Tier for a complete methodology.## Williams Communications  - Chief Architect  June 1996 - March 1999### Chief Architect - WCG Planning Group – In house enterprise architecture consultancy. Transformed Williams’ (SPEC) project approach into the Planning Group’s enterprise architecture (Zachman). Cross referenced all of WCG's organizations, business processes, connectivity and data models. Created an enterprise data model and warehouse that included: marketing, sales, order, fulfillment, customer care and finance. Mapped the marketing data model into a Java Swing GUI and integrated it with Brio for the first BI / OLAP application. Led the first CRM integration (Neon) project (Customer One) that established the planning group’s credibility.### Chief Architect - Williams Conferencing - Distributed 3-Tier Platform and Design PatternsIncorporated Design Patterns into a distributed 3-Tier platform, conducted weekly seminars and authored the teams OO methodology.. Key components included a fax-broadcast dispatcher, job monitoring, Internet and persistence.  These components reduced development time by 1/3 in months for each platform: fax 9, invoice 6, audio 4 and video 3. Rewrote the video desktop application in Java/Swing in 98.## NORTEL - OO Architect    Oct. 1992 - April 1996### Design Pattern and OO Education Supervisor - BNR - Bell Northern Research Developed & taught the Design Patterns & OO courses for BNR’s switch developers. The courses emphasized the GOF and POSA Design Pattern catalogs applied to DMS-100 switch architecture. Authored an OO handbook that described how to implement the best features of OO techniques. Saw an increase of productivity from my students.### Project Manager - Site Tracker - Switch Configuration, EA  and OO MethodologyCollaborated with NorTel’s Object Center to define a methodology that merged OMT with OBA/CRC in 93.  Within NorTel's BPR effort CODB (Central Order Database), led the Site Tracker and Loader Smalltalk/C++ projects for viewing and loading and switch configurations.  ### OO Designer - Fiber Vision - Network Operations CenterMonitored DMS-100 Switches via a centralized network operations center - NorTel’s largest OO project in which our team re-factored the original design. Classified 2100 DMS-100 log reports Built OO database models and Smalltalk/C++ applications (Gemstone) for the DMS-100 switch and SS7 network topology. ## Glaxo - OO Designer -  Research Computing  Jan. 1990 - Sept. 1992Reengineered the experimental processes for Glaxo’s pharmaceutical research division. Developed C++/Lisp libraries for symbolic math, relational tables and trace curve fit models. Built a visualization package in PV-Wave. Added a curve fit to Excel to create the scientific spreadsheet adopted by over 300 scientists.